## Video Visualization

### Indexing
- [Introduction](#Introduction)
- [Related Work](#Related-Work)
- [Our Hypotheses and Contributions](#Our-Hypotheses-and-Contributions)
- [Video Visualization Pipeline](#Video-Visualization-Pipeline)
- [Conclusions](#Conclusions)
- [References](#References)

---
### Introduction
- In this paper, we present a novel methodology for **“summarizing” video sequences using volume visualization techniques.**
-  We outline a system **pipeline** for **capturing videos**, **extracting features**, **volume rendering video and feature data**, and **creating video visualization**. 


- We discuss a collection of **image comparison metrics**, including the **linear dependence detector**, for constructing “relative” and “absolute” difference volumes that represent the magnitude of variation between video frames.
- We describe the use of a few **volume visualization techniques**, including **volume scene graphs** and **spatial transfer functions**, for creating video visualization.

-  In particular, we present a **stream-based technique** for processing and directly rendering video data in **real time**. 
---
### Related Work
- Change detection
- Video surveilance: many researchers studied video processing in the context of video surveilance, for instance, monitoring crowds, monitoring vehicles, recognizing pedestrains.

---
### Our Hypotheses and Contributions
- Video visualization is an intuitive and cost-effective means of processing large volumes of video data.
- Well constructed visualizations of a video are able to show information that numerical and statistical indicators cannot.
- Users can be accustomed to visual features depicted in video visualizations, or can be trained to recognize specific features.

--- 
### Video Visualization Pipeline
#### Pipeline: 
- video capture
- data communication
- data management
- video processing
- video visualization

#### V3 Volume Visualization for Videos
Three major algorithmic modules:
##### Feature processor
- consist of a number of image processing filters and image comparison metrics.
- takes the raw imagery data as inputs
- generates appropriate outputs for the statistical analyzer and volume renderer modules.

##### Statistical analyzer:  
- takes inputs from the feature processor module 
- produces numerical statistical indicators.
- input the numerical statistical indicators to the visualization module
- the statistical indicators are presented as 2D charts.

##### Volume renderer
- handle only volumetric data, which includes the raw video data as well as that generated by the feature processor module.
---
### Conclusions
- We have shown that video data can be processed and visualized in the same manner as other volumetric data. 


---
### References
- [Video Visualization](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.63.1648&rep=rep1&type=pdf)

---

